---
date: "2020-01-01"
description: A description of the page
menu: main
title: Daniel Lee
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

Is an economist and a data scientist. Holds a Ph.D. in economics and
possesses more than a decade of experience in performing detailed
economic analyses for government, academic, and business organizations. 
Highly knowledgeable regarding the US and global economies.  Capable of
interpreting government data, such as the US Census Bureau, US BLS, and
US BEA. Loves data mining, data visualization, and machine learning.
Published legal analytics research in Bloomberg Law and New Hampshire
Bar News.  Known as an innovative, ambitious self-starter adept at
identifying trends, opportunities, and risks.  Expertise spans:

Economics \| Data Analytics \| NLP \| Machine Learning \| Time Series \|
Community Development

---
HIGHLIGHTS
---

-   Pioneered an innovative approach in legal analytics as published in
    Bloomberg Law in December 2019.

-   Developed a series of data analytics courses at Plymouth State
    University, including sports data analytics, legal analytics and
    financial analytics.

-   Developed an economic index to track the current economic status of
    both the region and the state of New Hampshire.

-   Completed more than a dozen funded economic impact studies and five
    return on investment studies.

-   Pioneered an innovative program that incorporates real-world
    problems and real businesses to teach coding, data analytics, and
    economics to middle school students.

---
CAREER TRACK
---

**Professor of Economics**       2007-Present

Plymouth State University --Business Academic unit
                          

Teaches undergraduate and graduate data analytics and economics courses,
including business statistics, legal risk analytics, sports data
analytics, financial modeling, MBA economic analysis, money and banking,
and international economics. 

**Principal and Economist**       2015-2016

The OakLee Consulting Group,
LLC                                                       

Co-founded and co-owns the company with a partner. Consults clients,
performs economic analyses, and develops new products and markets.

**Tourism Economist**       2012-2016

New Hampshire Division of Travel and Tourism Development      

Collects and estimates state tourism indicators. Evaluates the state's
return on investment in the travel and tourism industry.  Estimates the
industry's economic impact on the state's economy.  Responds to
inquiries from media and the public.  Testifies before the state
legislature on behalf of the division.

**Faculty Fellow**       2010-2016

Plymouth State University -- Center for Business and Community
Development         

Is the first full-time faculty member in university history to perform
economic analyses, including economic impact studies, for trade
associations and government agencies within New Hampshire, such as the
US Forest Service, Grafton County Economic Development Council, Ski New
Hampshire, and New Hampshire Timberland Owners Association.  Authored
and published the North Country Economic Index, a quarterly economic
newsletter for the region and the state of New Hampshire.
